---
title: "Organizational"
featured: ../images/featured/goals.png
---

## Increase Organizational Learning

An organization's ability to learn has a compounding positive or negative effect
on its performance, particularly in technical fields where the ecosystem changes
rapidly. A small organization is made of one social unit, allowing ideas to
spread rapidly across the whole system, and the organization learns together.
However, as an organization scales up its size, it begins to fracture into
multiple social units encapsulated in communication boundaries. Teams who do not
work directly together have limited ways of communicating ideas outside of the
team. This in turn slows the diffusion of ideas and innovations across the
organization.

Our hypothesis is that transactional communication (emails, presentations, adhoc
conversations) have limited ability to facilitate diffusion. When a person
becomes part of a team and works with that team towards a common goal, a far
deeper understanding and more effective learning process can take place. This
learning is bi-directional, which makes it particularly good for guiding
platform teams.

## Circulating Perspectives and Innovations

Keeping a subset of the organization regularly moving between teams and domains
accelerates the diffusion of ideas in much the same way that stirring water
dramatically increases how the diffusion of dyes dropped into it. New ideas,
best practices, and learnings are always entering an organization through
individuals. Unless additional action is taken, those innovations will remain
localized.

Some ideas are significant enough that they should be spread deliberately, for
example, through training, email, or presentations. However, there will be many
ideas which are not sufficiently observable or impactful to be picked up by this
type of communication. Many good ideas and practices will therefore not
effectively spread across a large organization, and in aggregate these add up to
a significant opportunity cost for the organization as a whole. Today, in any
given organization, there are likely dozens or hundreds of improvements which
are remain localized within the teams that learned them.

An Auxiliary Engineer embedded within a team creates an opportunity for rich
bi-directional learning. When the engagement completes and the Auxiliary
Engineer moves on to work with another team, they bring with them some of the
strengths and perspectives from the first team. Over time, the Auxiliary
Engineer learns from a growing number of teams, and is able to spread those
learnings across the organization rapidly.

## Durably Changing Behavior By Changing Habits

One of the most powerful ways we've found to durably change a team's behaviors
is to influence their habits, and we subscribe to the theory that it takes
roughly 10 weeks for a new habit to be formed. When an Aux Engineer begins
working with a team, one of the first things they should be doing is identifying
what habits they'd like to instill in the team. Disrupting habits in the
beginning, and then consistently reinforcing the change throughout the duration
of an engagement. The goal is by the end of the 3 months some old habits have
been replaced with new ones and they are far more likely to take.

A common example we've come across is appropriately prioritizing code reviews
above project work. If you discuss this with a team, and they understand and
agree with a change, it's still a long hard uphill battle to get a change like
this to take. There are many habits, feedback loops, and incentives which are
likely reinforcing the original behaviors.

## Bring New Perspectives To Old Problems

Sometimes a fresh perspective can do wonders to helping a team rethink long
standing problems. Over time all teams lose their ability to see their domain
for the first time, and they collectively begin to solidify on certain
assumptions.

A new hire is a great way to bring this fresh perspective to a domain, but a new
hire is also faced with additional challenges. They're trying to wrap their
heads around the entire system as a whole, and they are also feeling out their
new team's personalities. It can be risky to make too many suggestions early and
be perceived as a threat by more tenured members of the team. These two factors
can curtail a new team member's ability to form and share their fresh
perspectives with the team.

When someone is invited to join a team as part of an Aux Engagement, they
benefit from their existing domain knowledge within the organization, and their
temporary role makes them less likely to be perceived, even unconsciously, as a
threat to existing engineers.

For this to be effective, it is important that the auxiliary engineer be brought
on with the appropriate context and buy-in from the team. See: Framing the
engagement.
