---
title: "Elements"
featured: ../images/featured/theory.png
---

# How do I implement my own AuxEng team?

If you are interested in implementing your own AuxEng team, please reach out to
`atruslow@wayfair.com`.

In general, the following are core elements of AuxEng. You'll need to implement
them to start your AuxEng team.

Please also review the [AuxEng project
structure](../running_engagements/overview.md) and the [AuxEng
roles.](../running_engagements/roles.md)

## Elements of AuxEng

### Free Fridays

Your auxiliary engineer should work with their host team from Monday to
Thursday. On Fridays they should be working on self directed projects relating
to their time with the host team.

This is important for two reasons. First, it is really easy to get burnt out
doing AuxEng five days a week. Second, it is important for the auxiliary
engineer to bring back learnings from their engagement. "Free Fridays" are a
great time to address feedback rapidly, creating an extremely tight feedback
loop for improvements. If the auxiliary engineer doesn't have time to bring back
user feedback to your team you are missing an explicit goal of AuxEng.

### 10 Week Project Duration

AuxEng is about committing to an ambitious goal, and then partnering with a team
to deliver it quickly with high code quality. Ambitious goals generally take a
quarter.

Beyond that, it takes about 8 weeks to pick up a new habit, so a 10 week
engagement gives enough time for new coding habits to settle in.

### Weekly Retros

We hold weekly 30 minute retros specific to the AuxEng project. This is in
addition to any retros the host team is running. We hold them even when there is
"nothing to talk about". We take notes and send them out to all participants. We
keep the retro notes in git so we can reference back to them at any point in the
future.

We hold the weekly retro at the same time every week, and end the retro early
when we run out of things to talk about. We stress that we value negative
feedback, and we try to address the feedback as soon as possible to build trust.

### Measurable Goals

We build out measurable OKR-like goals with the host team **before starting a
project.** We revisit the goals every week in the retro and discuss the measured
progress.

This clarity on the project goals is very important; it normally eliminates
weeks of wasted work. [Here is an
example](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1B7V_cuV_37koAvSh0GjdFEK7CJFje-jcwidKRzKJoMc/edit)
of goals we've worked out for a project we completed with Virtual Media.

### Deliver Value in Production

We focus on delivering value in production as soon as possible after starting an
engagement. We generally get a high quality MVP in production within the first
two weeks. Features that aren't in production are not finished!

### High Quality Software

We measure test coverage, and we only deliver software with 80% test coverage or
greater. We limit rework by writing tests and focusing on quality. Great tests
allow us to move quickly and refactor fearlessly.

### Advisor and Engineer roles

We have an explicit project advisor and project engineer, as two distinct roles.
The engineer does the leg work on the project, leads the retros, pairs with the
host team, etc. The advisor supports the engineer and gives them feedback and
direction. The advisor also can support the engineer by escalating issues with
the host team's management.

### Net Promoter Score

At the end of the project we measure our NPS via survey, and we talk about it
and socialize it (even if it isn't great).

## AuxEng Anti-Goals

### Superiority

We are not toxic experts (we hope). When we work with a team they work along
side us and they deserve the credit for their projects. We are guests on their
team, and we are here to help them be successful.

### "Embedding"

We don't embed with the team to "burn down the backlog". We are there to help
the host team build a culture of quality and produce better software. Often our
engineers spend most of their time pairing, and not burning down tickets.
Embedding can be useful, but normally it is smaller scope and shorter than an
AuxEng engagement.

### Building Dependency

We are explicitly trying to build up the host team, so they are *not* dependent
on us to be successful in the future.

### Forcing AuxEng on Teams

We work with teams who are excited to work with us. We never force any team to
engage with us.
