---
title: "Planning"
featured: ../images/featured/running.png
---

By the planning phase, we have [set expectations](../expectations) for others to
interact with our team, and [successfully sourced](../sourcing) a  project for
to work on. Our team will now make an effort to plan for, and plan out the
specifics of, an engagement.

## Build Familiarity

In most cases, we'll be working with a team in a domain we're unfamiliar with.
Likely we'll have practices that are universal enough that the majority of work
won't be an issue. Documentation and testing pipelines, for example, take
similar shape everywhere.

We find it worthwhile to intentionally clear our engineer's schedule as much as
possible for a week or so to let them poke around the hosting team's codebase
and meet with the engineers they'll work with -- before the engagement starts.
This has the secondary benefit of creating cohesion and identifying who is the
most enthusiastic to learn about how our team will help.

Learning about the space we'll be working in for over two months is essential to
success.

## Goals and Metrics

Once we decide we want to work with a team on a project, we work with them to
build out clear and measurable goals and metrics. We use these metrics to
clearly define what measurable things we aim to complete during the project. We
should set goals aspirational enough that we likely won't complete them all. We
aim for finishing about 75%. Generally these goals fit on one page, and range
from code quality metrics to minimum viable product features. We reinforce the
metrics that matter most for us and a hosting team -- as well as the business
impact we expect to make and how it benefits the team.

We only measure the MVP goals once the application is fully deployed and in
production. We focus on deploying a high quality MVP with a small feature set to
production as quickly as possible. We generally have a goal measuring production
adoption. This could be the rate of flow through an order processing system, or
measuring user interactions on a web page. This helps prevent us from working on
a project that is deployed to production but is never used.

Keep in mind we should have a mix of technical and business goals. This ensures
both management layers of a team as well as engineers have a clear understanding
of how they can contribute, and feel invested in the success of the engagement.

## Scheduling Meetings

Once we've decided on the project goals and metrics, we start discussing
scheduling with the host team. We try to line up our projects with the start and
end of quarters. We also try to give our engineers 3 weeks off between projects
to focus on platform work. Without some time off between projects it can be easy
to burn out. Given those constraints, we work with the host team to set up a
start and an end date for the project.

## Kick Off Meeting

During the first week of the project we set up a kickoff meeting with the
developers, the product managers, and anyone else who is interested.

At the kickoff meeting we communicate expectations about how we will be
developing. We explain which testing frameworks we use, what coverage metrics we
are going to shoot for; and review any other goals we have.

We communicate what the MVP we agreed on is, and how we are planning on
approaching it technically. Sometimes the MVP or the technical approach hasn't
been fully communicated to the entire team, so we make sure to reiterate it
here.

We talk through the project timeline, and communicate expectations about when
the project MVP will be delivered.

We take this time to reinforce the purpose of Aux Engagements, and what cadence
we'll revisit priorities and talk about how the engagement is going (retros).
You can expect that this meeting will take 30 minutes to an hour.
