---
title: "Roles"
featured: ../images/featured/running.png
---

## Home Team

Any team that offers Aux Engagements is a "Home Team" for Aux Engineers. They
will have systems in place to take feedback from engineers and prioritize it for
their backlog. They will have to be able to live without the Aux Engineer for
the 10-week period of an engagement. They will spend plenty of time finding
folks who wish to have their team embedded with an Aux Engineer to run any
engagements.

The home team will have at least one [project engineer](#project-engineer) and
one [project advisor](#project-advisor). They should not be the same person for
the same engagement.

## Host Team / "Away" Team

A Host team is any team that engages with a home team through Aux Eng. Put
another way: any team that makes use of a team offering engineers through Aux
Engagements. A Host Team should have resources dedicated to pair programming
during the engagement. However: it is the job of the Home team to drive culture
and technology changes during the course of an engagement.

On a project there should be at least 2 folks working with the host team.

## Project Engineer

The project engineer is responsible for running the day to day of the Aux Eng
project. This includes running retros, attending standup, leading workshops,
pairing with engineers, writing tests, helping with features, etc. The project
engineer works with the host team from Monday through Thursday. On Fridays (or
appropriate 20% time) they have a free day to focus on other work outside of the
project.

The project engineer is generally the face of the project for the host team and
will co-locate with the host team.

## Project Advisor

The project advisor is responsible for the overall success of the project.
Advisors are responsible for seeing the big picture and ensuring the project is
on track overall. We expect the advisor to track progress against goals,
communicate with the broader organization about progress and collaboration, and
provide structure to a project's logistics.

The advisor works with the host team before the project to define the goals and
schedule of the project. Advisors attend the retros, and periodically meet with
the host team's leadership. Advisors also provide the project engineer with
feedback, coaching, and general support.

The advisor is also responsible for identifying issues with the project. The
advisor may choose to end the project early if the host team isn't fulfilling
their side of the contract.
