---
title: "Wrapping Up"
featured: ../images/featured/running.png
---

Aux Engagement completed! At this stage, engineers and advisors have spent
plenty of time with a host team, and vice versa. Retros, post engagement
surveys, and other clerical work is settled. What now?

## Keep Work Separate

Keeping work separate is a constant effort as a team engaging with other
engineering teams. It's tempting for other teams to view your team as "free
people" that will work to simply burn down a backlog.

It's up to a team running AuxEng to keep this work separate, and this line
becomes especially important to hold after an engagement ends. If a team
continues to expect more than a reasonable helping hand after an engagement
ends, something has gone wrong. Remember that the work for your team is on your
team, and the work for another team should be the same.

Don't lose hope! Setting boundaries for work your team will do after an
engagement (none) and where they can go for help as your team is available will
often solve this problem. Escalate to management and within your own
organization as necessary, keeping in mind a simple conversation will almost
always alleviate any confusion.

## Three Month Check-in

We care deeply that our AuxEng projects are set up for long term success.
Although during the project we focus on getting the host teams MVP into prod, we
hope that the projects we work on have a long term impact.

Three months after the project is finished we have an informal check-in with the
host team. We are interested in any feedback they have for us, and want to hear
how the project is shaping up after we left.

We are wary of the host team building too much dependency on AuxEng, which is a
failure in our eyes. During the three month check-in we ask the host team about
how they are fairing, and if they feel comfortable maintaining what we built
together.

We use this sentiment within the team to gauge success of our products'
maintenance, instead of initial setup and usage. The report that an engaged team
can and would provide is usually more candid; compared to what we expect from
teams that do not have a similar connection.

## Following Up

We find connections throughout Wayfair when we practice AuxEng. Sometimes those
connections make little sense to keep tight relationships with after an
engagement ends.

Other times, it makes sense to keep a post-engagement set of colleagues together
in 1-1 conversations, or regular monthly sync ups. Tech leads can give great
feedback about the team's progress culturally, individual contributors will have
the most direct input on how well practices and tools are proliferating through
their team, and managers will give a bigger picture of the impact engagements
have had over time.

Building connections that endure through shared success and mistakes will create
empathy and understanding between teams. Make the best use of that empathy to
drive team success and better decisions for product and strategic direction.

## What's Next?

In short: Do it again!

We measure success from an engagement with business and technical goals
achieved. We wse NPS to understand how a hosting team felt about the progress
technically, and product wise, from any engagement effort. We use what practices
worked for us and reconsider the ones that didn't work. Everything we do is up
for debate, and we use it all to achieve the mission and goals of AuxEng and our
team.

It should be mentioned that this process can take a toll on [engineers and
advisors](../roles). Your Milage Will Vary, but we generally don't expect
engineers to want to do more than 2 engagements back to back. Anything more will
leave folks feeling disconnected from the team running Aux engagements.

When you're ready with another good idea, fresh engineers, and a strong fit,
[roll it back](../)!
